---
title: ql.io 0.6
layout: post
author: subbu
comments: true
---

Today's release of ql.io 0.6 includes the following changes:

* Support array style reference in columns clause, such as `select 'b-1', 'b-3'['c-1'] from a`.
* Disable ability to enable/disable ecv checks by default. You can turn it on by adding arg
   `--ecvControl true` to the start script.
* Add optional parameters in route. Including "with optional params" in route would make params
  without `^` prefix optional. When this clause is present, only required tokens are used for
  matching a request to a route.
* Be able to start the server on multiple ports
* Added support for multiple attachments. See docs on insert http://ql.io/docs/insert
* End pending connections on close after responses are written.
* Support cache events (hit, miss, new, error, info, heartbeat)
* Switch to new cluster2
* Added new syntaxes "with part" and opaque insert param.
* Fix expression parsing in string template so that a token like `"{obj.prop[?(@.price > 2)]}"` is
  valid
* Add support for escaped quotes in string values
* Update PEG.js to 0.7.
* Remove duplicates from in clause.
* Use `hasOwnProperty` in place of prop lookup while joining
* Deal with non UTF-8 encodings from upstream resources
* When joining, use '==' to maintain backwards compat
* Refactor logging to error, access, proxy and default logs. The proxy log file contains outgoing
  req/resp, access log contains incoming requests, error log contains all errors and warnings,
  and the rest go to ql.io.log. All these files are rotated.
* Include a payload with begin events
* Support local offset and limit
* Fix the case of alias names with joins and UDFs.
* Add UDFs in where clause to post process rows. You can either tweak or remove a row. See
  https://gist.github.com/2334012 for semantics of UDFs. UDF support for the where clause is coming
  in version 0.7.